Our app is called Terra Probe. Many believe that geologists have to do fieldwork in order to gain information. However, NASA has previously conducted research and has all relevant information in its large databases. However, the information is extremely hard to access as the data isn’t very organized. Our app provides a platform for geologists to access suitable information associated with geology in a user-friendly and amusing manner. The app allows users to search for any mineral and provides them with its location, chemical formula, composition, color, streak, hardness, and crystal system. This saves geologists a lot of time and money as don’t have to physically go to the field site present at a remote location and retrieve that information as it is already present. Currently, our code only provides information on certain minerals that have been manually inputted because we weren’t able to automate it so it fetches information from NASA’s library and parses it to furnish relevant information to the user due to lack of time. Geologists can also quiz themselves and learn more about Geology. It could also potentially save a lot of lives as geologists could search for a specific natural disaster and the app provides a map regarding the possible locations of that disaster through the data from NASA’s UAVSAR. It is extremely important and helps geologists as disasters at remote locations (main locations of field sites) are unpredictable. The data is very accurate. Currently, it only provides the map of the US but we wish to make of the entire world which we weren’t able to do due to lack of time. Overall, this app makes lives much easier for geologists as they don’t have to go through the hassle of doing fieldwork to gain crucial information.
